the entire army is mobilizing the
raiding parties head out to the last
place they had found food where they had
pinned down the few winged termites
[Music]
the bearing they've taken is leading
them straight towards the termite mound
itself ants and termites have been
adversaries for over a hundred million
years now their armies of today are on a
collision course but without any
physical contact the blind Army is as
unaware of the termites ahead as the
termites are of the approaching ants
they begin to swarm over the outside of
the termite towers that for the moment
appeared to them to be just mounds of
dried mud
[Music]
guards are posted while others explore
every crevice for any sign of food first
contact the ants know there's something
here and change direction towards the
alarm signal they mass around the guards
alert for any unpleasant surprises
this is unknown territory anything could
be lying in wait down there
a worker gingerly explores the gaping
hole and a scouting party lays a scent
trail for others to follow
activity increases an assault is on
other ants have found the termites
foraging tunnels and scramble inside the
tunnels are narrow and not at all like
the open spaces driver ants prefer
termite soldiers with enormous jaws and
heads prepare to check the incursion
a soldier termite confronts the invaders
with a threat display but it's not going
to impress a driver hat
the ants penetrate deep into the nest
and the residents intensify the warning
[Music]
first blood is to the termites but the
tunnel guards are in danger of being
overrun
[Music]
the ants break through the first line of
defense
[Music]